And again, if we would now execute
this workflow again because I, for example
changed some file and create a new commit.
If I change this title from H3 to H2 here
and I then create a new commit,
change to H2 and I push this,
you will see that now even
for the first job install dependencies
will be much faster because that cache is used
across workflow executions.
So now if we wait for this test job to start,
you will notice that cache dependencies again
was able to restore the cache
and therefore install dependencies
also finishes much faster.
Occasionally it might take longer
but typically it should finish much faster.
And the same of course, should be true
for the install dependencies step in our jobs.
Now, of course if I do change my dependencies,
for example here if I run NPM outdated,
I can update some dependencies.
It's not too important.
But if I run NPM update to update some dependencies,
that will change both package dot JSON
and package lock dot JSON as you can see here
by the color coding.
And if I now create a new commit here
where I say updated dependencies, and I push this commit
you will see that now the cache won't be reused
because package lock dot JSON changed
and therefore the cache key will change.
You will see that it's not able to use the cache
for this new key and the old cache
will therefore eventually be discarded
and the newly downloaded dependencies
will now instead be stored in the cache
by the post cache dependencies step.
But after that, there again is a cache
that can be used by other jobs and workflows.
So that's how you can cache dependencies
and how you can significantly speed up your workflows
with help of caching.